Can you say something to the history of alchemy.
A little bit and its impact? Sure. Um,
it used to be thought two things, one that alchemy,
which dates certainly back to the Islamic period in Islam, uh,
you're talking, you know, 11th, 12th of 18th centuries, uh,
among Islamic natural philosophers and experimenters. Uh,
but it used to be thought that, um, alchemy,
which picked up strikingly in the 15th, 16th century,
15 hundreds in thereabouts, uh,
was a sort of mystical procedure involving all sorts of
strange notions and so on.
And that's not entirely untrue,
but it is substantially untrue in that alchemists were
engaged in what, uh,
was known as Chris O Poya that is looking for ways to
transform, um,
invaluable materials into valuable ones mm-hmm <affirmative> but
in the process of doing so or attempting to do so,
they learned how to, uh,
create complex amalgams of various kinds.
They used very elaborate apparatus limbics in
which they would use heat to produce chemical decompositions.
They would write down and observe these compositions.
And many of the so-called really strange looking out chemical formulas and
statements where they'll say something like, I, I can't produce it,
but it'd be the soul of Mars combine with the,
this et cetera, et cetera. These,
it has been shown are almost all actual formulas for how
to engage in the production of complex amalgams mm-hmm <affirmative> and what to
do.
And by the time of Newton Newton was reading the works of a,
a, uh, fellow by the name of Starky who was actually came from Harvard,
uh, uh, shortly before in which, um,
things had progressed, if you will,
to the point where the procedure turns into what historians called Christ OPO,
which basically runs in to the notion of thinking that maybe
these things are made outta particles,
this is the mechanical philosophy. Can we engage in processes,
chemical processes to rearrange these things, which is not so stupid after all?
I mean, we do it except we happen to do it in reactors, not in chemical process,
these unless of course it had happened that cold fusion had worked,
which it didn't, um, not yet. Well, right. But, um,
so that's the way they're thinking about these things.
There's a kind of mix and Newton engages extensively in those sorts
of manipulations. In fact,
more in that than almost anything else, uh,
except for his optical investigations.
If you look through the latter parts of the 1670s,
the last 5, 6,
7 years or so of that is more on that than there is on
anything else he's not working on mechanics.
He's pretty much gone pretty far in optics.
He'll turn back to optics later on.
So optics and alchemy.
So well you're saying is Isaac Newton liked shiny things?
Well, actually, if you go on and look at what bill Newman,
the professor in Indiana, uh, at Bloomington Indiana has produced,
you'll find the very shiny thing called the star reus,
which Newton describes as having produced according to a particular way,
which Newman figured out and was able to do it. And it's very shiny.
<laugh> there.
You go. Proves the, the, yeah.